Ezra 1"Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the LORD by he mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred up
the spirit of Cyrus the king of Persia, so that he mad a proclamation throughtout all his kingdom, and also put it in riting, saying,
2 "Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: All the kingdoms of the earth the LORD GOD of heaven has given me. And He has commanded me to 
build Him a house at Jerusalem which is in Judah, and build the house of the LORD GOD of Israel ( HE is God), which is in Jerusalem.
4 And whoever is left in any place where he dwells, let the men of his place help him with silver and gold, with goods and 
livestock, besides the freewill offerings for the house of God which is in Jerusalem.
5



Ezra Chapter 7
1. Now after these things in the reign of Artaxerxes king of persia ezra the son of seraiah the son of azariah the son of 
hilkiah the son of shallum the son of zadok
the son of ahitub the son of amariah the son of azariah the son of meraioth the son of zerahiah the son of uzzi
the son of bukki the son of abishua the son of phinehas the son of eleazar the son of aaron the chief priest 
this ezra came up from Babylon; and he was a skilled scribe in the law of moses which the lord god of israel had given.
the king granted him all his request according to the hand of the lord his god upon him.
Some of the children of Israel, the priests, the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim came up to
Jerusalem in the seventh year of King Artaxerxes.
And Ezra came to Jerusalem in the 5th month, which was in the 7th year of the king.
On the 1st day of the first month he began his journey from Babylon, and on the 1st day of the 5th month
he came to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him. 
For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the Law of the Lord,
and to do it, and to teach statutes and ordinances in Israel.
11. This is a copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave Ezra the priest, the scribe,
expert in the words of the comandments of the Lord, and of His statutes to Israel:

//Written in Aramaic originally in Ezra from Chapter 7 verse 12 until verse 26

12. Artaxerxes, king of kings,

To Ezra the priest, a scribe of the Law of the God of heaven:

Perfect peace, and so forth.

13. I issue a decre that all those of the people of Israel and the priests and Levites
in my realm, who volunteer to go up to Jerusalem, may go with you.
14. And whereas you are being sent by the king and his seven counselors to inquire


